---
layout: post
status: draft
published: false
title: "Stop"
date: 2019-09-22 21:00:00 +02:00
date_gmt: 2019-09-22 19:00:00 +0000
tags:
- bikes
- life
old_tags:
- bikes
- winter
---

Back in 2003 I worked a short while as a bicycle messenger in Helsinki. During
the winter I had a few very challenging days. I wasn't in the best shape at
first: I had been a messenger already in 2001 but then spent a year as a
conscript and exercised very little.

One particular day has stayed with me. The details escape me but that day I
was more tired than ever. Maybe I was recovering from a flu or just hadn't
rested enough, not eaten enough. I was driving through a blizzard in freezing
temperatures and remember thinking:

"**Someone has sabotaged my bike**"

Or more specifically: "**Someone has sabotaged my bike by *pouring water* into
my tires which have now frozen and weigh a ton.**"

I don't know how long I had this bonkers thought. A minute? An hour? 
Long enough that I could have run the facts: 

1. There was absolutely no one who would have wanted to sabotage my bike
2. There is no feasible way to pour water into tires that I know of
3. I wouldn't have been able to ride at all with water or ice sloshing around my tires

There was a slightly more obvious answer that didn't occur to me. That I was just
shit and for whatever reason I was in no condition to be cycling in a blizzard
that day.

I have since repeated the error a few times albeit a lot less dramatically
with computers. More than once during a crunch time coding session I've run
into a situation where the most basic programming language features suddenly
stop working. A variable doesn't seem to hold its value or maybe an
if-statement doesn't obey the laws of *clearly* true / false values.

Luckily knowing anything about computers helps here. You know computers are
always deterministic and it's you who doesn't understand, not the computer.
But it's still extremely difficult to reach the second conclusion: maybe you
should stop coding when you fail to set variables and computers seem to be
doing magic.

Anyway, I'm hoping to someday learn these two things:
1. To realise beforehand that something can't be done 
2. Failing to achieve #1, realise that something you are doing should not be finished

The first one being impossible we are stuck with the latter. 